{"en":"One of the most famous sailing ships of the nineteenth century,  the Cutty Sark,  can still be seen at Greenwich. ^ ","ch":"人们在格林威治仍可看到19世纪最有名的帆船之一“卡蒂萨克”号。  "}
{"en":"She stands on dry land and is visited by thousands of people each year. ^ ","ch":"它停在陆地上， 每年接待成千上万的参观者。  "}
{"en":"She serves as an impressive reminder of the great ships of the past. ^ ","ch":"它给人们留下深刻的印象， 使人们回忆起历史上的巨型帆船，  "}
{"en":"Before they were replaced by steamships,  sailing vessels like the Cutty Sark were used to carry tea from China and wool from Australia. ^ ","ch":"在蒸汽船取代帆船之前。 “卡蒂萨克”号之类的帆船被用来从中国运回茶叶， 从澳大利亚运回羊毛。  "}
{"en":"The Cutty Sark was one of the fastest sailing ships that has ever been built. ^ “","ch":"卡蒂萨克”号是帆船制造史上建造的最快的一艘帆船。  "}
{"en":"The only other ship to match her was the Thermopylae. ^ ","ch":"唯一可以与之一比高低的是“塞姆皮雷”号帆船。  "}
{"en":"Both these ships set out from Shanghai on June 18th,  1872 on an exciting race to England. ^ ","ch":"两船于1872年6月18日同时从上海启航驶往英国， 途中展开了一场激烈的比赛。  "}
{"en":"This race,  which went on for exactly four months,  was the last of its kind. ^ ","ch":"这场比赛持续了整整4个月， 是这类比赛中的最后一次，  "}
{"en":"It marked the end of the great tradition of ships with sails and the beginning of a new era. ^ ","ch":"它标志着帆船伟大传统的结束与一个新纪元的开始。  "}
{"en":"The first of the two ships to reach Java after the race had begun was the Thermopylae,  but on the Indian Ocean,  the Cutty Sark took the lead. ^ ","ch":"比赛开始后， “赛姆皮雷”号率先抵达爪哇岛。 但在印度洋上， “卡萨萨克”号驶到了前面。  "}
{"en":"It seemed certain that she would be the first ship home,  but during the race she had a lot of bad luck. ^ ","ch":"看来， 它首先返抵英国是确信无疑的了， 但它却在比赛中连遭厄运。  "}
{"en":"In August,  she was struck by a very heavy storm during which her rudder was torn away. ^ 8","ch":"月份“卡蒂萨克”号遭到一场特大风暴的袭击， 失去了一只舵。  "}
{"en":"The Cutty Sark rolled from side to side and it became impossible to steer her. ^ ","ch":"船身左右摇晃， 无法操纵。  "}
{"en":"A temporary rudder was made on board from spare planks and it was fitted with great difficulty. ^ ","ch":"船员用备用的木板在船上赶制了一只应急用的舵， 并克服重重困难将舵安装就位，  "}
{"en":"for there was a danger that if she travelled too quickly,  this rudder would be torn away as well. ^ ","ch":"因为船不能开得太快， 否则就有危险， 应急舵也会被刮走。  "}
{"en":"Because of this,  the Cutty Sark lost her lead. ^ ","ch":"因为这个缘故， “卡蒂萨克”号落到了后面。  "}
{"en":"After crossing the Equator,  the captain called in at a port to have a new rudder fitted, ^ ","ch":"跨越赤道后， 船长将船停靠在一个港口， 在那儿换了一只舵。  "}
{"en":"but by now the Thermopylae was over five hundred miles ahead. ^ ","ch":"但此时， “赛姆皮雷”号早已在500多英里之遥了。  "}
{"en":"Though the new rudder was fitted at tremendous speed,  it was impossible for the Cutty Sark to win. ^ ","ch":"尽管换装新舵时分秒必争， 但“卡蒂萨克”号已经不可能取胜了，  "}
{"en":"She arrived in England a week after the Thermopylae. ^ ","ch":"它抵达英国时比“塞姆皮雷”号晚了1个星期。  "}
{"en":"Even this was remarkable,  considering that she had had so many delays. ^ ","ch":"但考虑到路上的多次耽搁，  "}
{"en":"There is no doubt that if she had not lost her rudder she would have won the race easily. ^ ","ch":"这个成绩也已很不容易了。 毫无疑问， 如果中途没有失去舵，  “卡帝萨克”号肯定能在比赛中轻易夺冠。  "}